Monolithic
Microservices
-  Break down larger applications into smaller pieces
-  Are independently maintainable and scalable
-  Provides cost benefits and team autonomy


Serverless?
-  Ability to run apps withiut managing architecture. 
-  Require serverless architecture for the core code. 
-  Apps deployed quickly and free up space app. 

Modern Software Architecture:
Software as a service
Centrally hosted and accessed through the internet. 

Twelve factor app methodology is suited for web apps
- 3 phases (Code, Deploy and Operate)

CODE FACTORS:
1. CODE BASE: Tracked in a version control system (Git)
    Maintain 1to1 relationship between codebase and app 
5. BUILD RELEASE AND RUN:
    Compile in build. 
    Release configures deployment
    Run Implements the app. (code shold not be changeable in run. )
    Las tres fases deben estar separadas
10. DEV/PROD: Parity
    Minimize differences between development and prod environments
    Quickly prommotes changes to prod. 
2. Dependencies:
    Un app es tan confiable como su dependencia menos confiable
    Se deben declarar todas las depedencias. 


DEPLOYMENT FACTORS:
3. Config
    Separate from code
    Credenciales y locaciones del Backend deben estar siempre en un config
    Debe estar en las variables de entorno
4. Servicios de Backend
    No se debe distinguir entre servicios locales y de terceros. 
    Todos los servicios se deben acceder vía una URL para que puedan ser intercambiados sin cammbiar el código.
6. Procesos:
    Deben ser stateless y no deben commpartir nada
    No deben compartir memoria ni archivos. 
    Datos deben estar centralizados. 
7. Port binding:
    Export HTTP services by port binding
    Declare web server library as a dependency
    Become backend service for other apps. 


Operate:
8. Concurrencia:
    Scale an app
    Spin up stateless processes
9. Disposability:
    Minimal start time and graceful termination
    Quickly deploy code or config changes
    Easily scale apps. 
11. Logs:
    App performance visibility
    No store but stream logs
    Route logs to destination
12. Admmin processes:
    DB migration 
    Run agains release using same codebase and config
    Part of app code



